
Hi,

I'm playing around with QDOX a little bit. Nice tool. Thanks for the good
work!

It seems that development of QDOX has slowed down a bit. The latest checkin
is > 43 days old. What's up?!?

Anyway, I attached a patch for QDOX-77. The patch includes changes to the
lexer and the LexerTest testcase. I solved the problem by introducing a new
lexer state OBJECT_ASSIGNMENT, which is started by reading the keyword 'new'
in state ASSIGNMENT. This allows you to have statements such as:

  HashMap<String,String> m1 = new HashMap<String,String>();
  HashMap<?,?>[]         m2 = new HashMap<?,?>[0];
  HashMap[]              m3 = new HashMap[0];
  HashMap<?,?>[]         m4 = { new HashMap<String,String>(), 
                                new HashMap<Integer,String>() }

(Note: The javac compiler accepts all these.)

Furthermore, my patch fixes a little bug regarding enums: in the original
version, trailing semicolons in the enum declaration were not allowed. For
example, you cannot have:

   enum Season { SPRING, SUMMER, AUTUMN, WINTER; }

Instead you'd had to write

   enum Season { SPRING, SUMMER, AUTUMN, WINTER }

The two bugfixes diminish the number of parse errors in the JDK 1.5 src.zip
from 18 to 9. In case you are interested: Here are the parse errors using
the qdox-1.6-SNAPSHOT.jar from yesterday:

*** Error parsing file com/sun/mirror/declaration/Modifier.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[41,51] in
com/sun/mirror/declaration/Modifier.java
*** Error parsing file com/sun/mirror/util/DeclarationFilter.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[17,8] in
com/sun/mirror/util/DeclarationFilter.java
*** Error parsing file java/awt/Toolkit.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[1768,29] in
java/awt/Toolkit.java
*** Error parsing file java/lang/management/MemoryType.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[26,9] in
java/lang/management/MemoryType.java
*** Error parsing file java/lang/SuppressWarnings.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[12,8] in
java/lang/SuppressWarnings.java
*** Error parsing file java/lang/Thread.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[1626,19] in
java/lang/Thread.java
*** Error parsing file java/math/RoundingMode.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[107,7] in
java/math/RoundingMode.java
*** Error parsing file java/security/KeyRep.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[60,5] in
java/security/KeyRep.java
*** Error parsing file java/security/Security.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[626,39] in
java/security/Security.java
*** Error parsing file java/util/Calendar.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[784,91] in
java/util/Calendar.java
*** Error parsing file java/util/concurrent/TimeUnit.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[40,16] in
java/util/concurrent/TimeUnit.java
*** Error parsing file java/util/logging/LogManager.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[140,75] in
java/util/logging/LogManager.java
*** Error parsing file java/util/Scanner.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[384,32] in
java/util/Scanner.java
*** Error parsing file javax/swing/plaf/basic/BasicFileChooserUI.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[1144,68] in
javax/swing/plaf/basic/BasicFileChooserUI.java
*** Error parsing file javax/swing/plaf/metal/CachedPainter.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[33,44] in
javax/swing/plaf/metal/CachedPainter.java
*** Error parsing file javax/swing/text/html/parser/DTD.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[44,32] in
javax/swing/text/html/parser/DTD.java
*** Error parsing file org/omg/CORBA/CompletionStatus.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[44,1] in
org/omg/CORBA/CompletionStatus.java
*** Error parsing file org/omg/CORBA/DefinitionKind.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[39,1] in
org/omg/CORBA/DefinitionKind.java

And here are the parse errors after appying my patch:

*** Error parsing file com/sun/mirror/declaration/Modifier.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[44,5] in
com/sun/mirror/declaration/Modifier.java
*** Error parsing file com/sun/mirror/util/DeclarationFilter.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[17,8] in
com/sun/mirror/util/DeclarationFilter.java
*** Error parsing file java/lang/management/MemoryType.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[26,9] in
java/lang/management/MemoryType.java
*** Error parsing file java/lang/SuppressWarnings.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[12,8] in
java/lang/SuppressWarnings.java
*** Error parsing file java/math/RoundingMode.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[107,7] in
java/math/RoundingMode.java
*** Error parsing file java/security/KeyRep.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[60,5] in
java/security/KeyRep.java
*** Error parsing file java/util/concurrent/TimeUnit.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[40,16] in
java/util/concurrent/TimeUnit.java
*** Error parsing file org/omg/CORBA/CompletionStatus.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[44,1] in
org/omg/CORBA/CompletionStatus.java
*** Error parsing file org/omg/CORBA/DefinitionKind.java:
com.thoughtworks.qdox.parser.ParseException: syntax error @[39,1] in
org/omg/CORBA/DefinitionKind.java

The remaining errors come from enums with methods/constructors or from the
new 'import static' expression. Both are not supported in QDOX currently. I
hope to send a patch for that later.

Note that I tested JDK 1.4 compatibility, too: QDOX parsed all of JDK 1.4
src.zip except org/omg/CORBA/CompletionStatus.java and
org/omg/CORBA/DefinitionKind.java. Those files cannot be parsed because they
have javadoc in a comma separated, multi field declaration. The unpatched
QDOX shows the same error btw.

My patch is quite large, because I didn't forced my Java editor to remove
trailing whitespaces. Sorry for that. Trailing whitespaces are bad anyway...
;-)

Again, thanks for QDOX.
PS: Hope to see full generics support in it. :-)

Greets,
Dirk.

-- 
Handyrechnung zu hoch? Tipp: SMS und MMS mit GMX
Seien Sie so frei: Alle Infos unter http://www.gmx.net/de/go/freesms